Earlier this week, we connected
to our online training report,
which shows us which staff have taken
part in the online training and
the online trainings
available to all the staff.
But it is a requirement that
sales staff participate.
We've been asked to create a report
that shows us all the sales staff who
have participated and
what their current status is.
We're going to create this
report using a merge query.
But first we're going to need to create
a query that only shows sales staff.
So coming to our staff tab, we're going
to click somewhere into the table.
We're going to come up
to our data ribbon and
we're going to select from table or range.
At the moment,
this query is showing us All the staff and
we only want the sales staff.
So we're going to come to
the department column and
we're going to filter out
everyone who's not in sales.
We're going to uncheck select all.
We're going to click sales.
And we can say ok.
Now we also don't need the start date or
the email.
So I'm going to select the start
date column, hold my shift key down,
click email, and just press Delete to
remove the columns from the query.
I should probably also give
the query a good name.
So over on the right under properties,
I'm going to call this sales stuff.
And then I'm ready to close and load.
But I want to create a connection only.
So choose Close and Load to only
create connection and then click OK.
I'm just going to click into a blank cell.
And what I need to do now is create
a merge query between sales staff and
my online training report.
But I have to make a decision
about which type of join to use.
Now I don't want all my sales staff.
I only want those who have participated
in the training And I don't want
everybody's participate in the training
only the people in the sales department.
So what I'm looking for is to only return
the records where there is a match.
For this, I need an inner
join clicks on a blank cell.
We're going to come to our data tab,
we're going to come to get data on
new query, combine queries and merge
My left table or my top table
is going to be my sales start.
And my bottom table or my right,
if you prefer, is going to be my report.
And then don't forget,
you actually have to match the two columns
that it's going to link the data on.
And that's ID and staff ID.
You may recall from the last video
that the default join is a left outer.
And that's not what we want.
So if you have the newer version
with the drop down list,
please select the drop down and
choose inner or only matching rows.
If you have the older version,
you won't have the drop down.
But you will have a checkbox that
says only include matching rows,
which is exactly the same thing.
So just check that box.
And then we're all ready to click OK.
If you plan to the bottom, you can
see that 41 rows have been selected.
So we can see the 41 sales
staff who have participated.
But we'd also like to see their status.
So one more step, we're going to
come up to the report column, and
we're going to expand that column.
We don't want to see everything,
we just want to see the status.
And we don't want the table name
to prefix the column heading.
So we're just going to untick that and
select okay.
There is our completed report.
Let's give it a sensible name.
So on the right, we're going to call
this sales otif online training.
Yes.
And
then we're going to come back
to our clothes and load.
And we're very happy for this to go
into a new table in our spreadsheet.
So we're just going to click the top part.
And there is our completed
query using an inner join and
we'll give the sheet a better name.
So at the bottom where says sheet one,
let's double click in there, and
we're going to call this sales Yes, We've
been asked to create one final report.
We need to find out which sales staff
have not participate in the training so
we can follow up with their managers.
Here we're looking to get all
the records in the sales staff query
that do not have a match in the report.
This is an anti join, and
in this case it's a left anti join.
Let's see how we do this.
Again, choose an empty cell.
We're going to come up to our data ribbon,
get data, combine queries and merge.
Our queries are the same as before.
Our left Query is going
to be our sales staff.
And our right is going
to be our report and
then again need to match staff ID to ID.
If you have the drop down list in
your version, click the drop down.
And what we're looking for
is a left anti join rows that
only appear in the first table.
If you don't have the drop down,
don't worry,
I'm going to show you
a really neat workaround.
So if you don't have it, don't worry.
I'm going to leave it as left outer.
But obviously if you do have it,
please select left empty, and
then we're going to click OK.
At the moment, my query is
showing me all the sales staff.
And if you have a look at the M
code inside my formula bar,
you can see my join kind is left outer.
The good news is you can
manually change this.
So if you don't have all the options or
even if you've just made a mistake,
you can come in and rectify it.
So I'm just going to click into my code,
and
I'm going to remove left outer that
leave the dot there and you'll see it.
Actually gives me a drop down list
with all the join options, and
the one we want is left empty.
If you don't get that autocomplete,
you can literally just type left empty.
And when I now press Enter It
has updated my query to
show only the 38 rows
that do not have a match.
Let's change the name.
So on the left,
we're going to call this sales ot.
No.
And then we're just going to
click a top part of closing mode.
And there is my final report using
a left anti-join showing me all
the sales staff who have not yet
participated in the training.
We renamed the worksheet tab, so
just double clicking the bottom,
we going to call this sales OT No.
For your optional practice,
why not try creating a right anti join to
get all the people who have participated
in the training who aren't
in the sales department?
Well, it's been a big week.
We've learned quite a lot about how Power
Query can get data from different sources,
upended merge it and even transform it.
We've got a great practice challenge
to help you revise all of these skills.
And next week we continue our
exciting journey with Power Query,
but with more of a focus on its
powerful data transformation tools.
So look forward to seeing you there.